Welcome to this beginner
English grammar master class.
This master class will help you learn
essential grammar that you need as a beginner.
Now, even if you're an intermediate or
advanced student, pay close attention
because I hear mistakes with all of
these areas from all my students.
Of course, I'm Jennifer from JForrest English.
Now let's get started.
First, let's review how to use do, does, and did.
Well, you need to understand that all three of
these are just different forms of the verb to do.
So the verb to do is the infinitive.
Now do and does are the present
simple conjugations of the verb,
and you simply choose one or the other
based on the subject that you have.
So if you're forming a
sentence and your subject is I,
you, we or they, you need to choose
do if your subject is ** *** or it.
So third person singular, you
need to choose does and that's it.
That's the only difference between do or does
in affirmative sentences in the present simple.
But keep in mind that do as a verb is used in
very specific sentences in the present simple.
So, for example, you do chores, you do chores.
The verb do is what we need
to complete the sentence.
So I could say I do chores every Sunday.
This is a routine.
It's in the present simple because
my subject is I, then I need do.
Now you can also do homework.
For example, do is the verb
that we use with homework.
Now I could say my sister, which
of course is she as a subject.
My sister does homework every night.
Again, this is a routine, so
I need the present simple.
My subject is my sister she, so I need does.
Now let's talk about did.
Did is the past simple form of the verb to do.
And as a past simple verb, there's
no difference with subjects.
So you use DID for all subjects
so that one is easier to remember.
And of course, if it's the past simple,
then we just need to make sure that
our time reference is in the past.
So I could say we did our homework last
night, she did her homework this morning.
Assuming this morning is already in the past
because right now is this
afternoon or this evening.
So this morning is in the past.
She did her homework this morning.
So notice it doesn't matter if I use we or she.
The subject doesn't matter because
DID is used for all subjects.
You just need to make sure that your
time reference is a past time reference.
Where do and does your time reference
is going to be a routine action.
So you're going to hear time
references like always, usually every.
Then you know it's a present simple amazing job.
Now let's review was and were.
Now, of course, both was and were are the past
forms of the verb to be and we use was and were
in different grammatical structures.
In English, the most common time
you'll see was or were is in the past.
Simple.
So let's just take a present statement.
Let's use to be late.
So here we have the verb to be to be late.
Now if I wanna make a sentence in
the past, for example, yesterday,
yesterday I now I take my verb to be and
I need to conjugate this in the past.
There are two different choices, was or were.
Your choice depends on the subject.
So in order to know which one you need was or
were, you simply look at your subject yesterday.
I the subject is I Yesterday I was
late, yesterday I was late yesterday.
You, you were yesterday, you were late yesterday.
She was late yesterday he was late.
It was late.
So notice ** *** it.
Those are our three options for
the third person singular subject.
The third person singular is conjugated
with was yesterday we we were late,
and yesterday they they were late.
So you can see that the subjects
I and third person singular use
was this subjects you, we and they use were.
That's what you need to remember.
So pause the video now.
Take as much time as you need to memorize this.
You simply need to memorize this.
Now the same rule applies
when we use the verb to be
in the past in different grammatical structures.
So this example was using the past simple.
Now we also use the verb to be in
the past with the past continuous.
The past continuous is formed with subject was or
were your choice depends on your subject
right and then your verb in ING form.
I could say yesterday I was running late.
We we were we were running late.
He he was running late.
They they were running late.
So it's the same rules that we just covered.
That doesn't change even though we're using
a different grammatical structure this time.
It's the past continuous.
Now we also use the verb to be in the past.
So was or were depending on the
subject in the passive voice.
So let's take an active sentence and I could say
the present surprised mean
the present surprised me.
Now I can take this active voice
and I can turn it into the passive.
And I would say, what will you guys tell me?
I'm going to give you a second and I
want you to write it in the comments.
What's the passive form of this active sentence?
Hmm, Write it in the comments.
So did you get it?
I was surprised.
I was surprised by the present.
I was surprised by this present.
But now let's say the active form used a
different pronoun and it was the present.
Surprised US.
OK, what would that be now
the present surprised us.
What would that be in the passive form?
So you guys tell me write it down in the comments.
The present surprised us.
What would that be in the passive voice?
That would be we.
We is now the subject.
So I need to think do I need was or were?
Well, remember it depends on
the subject we we use were.
We were surprised by the present.
To summarize, the choice between
was or were depends on the subject
we use was with the subjects I or
third person singular ** *** it.
We use were with subjects you, we and they,
and was and where are used in
the past form of the verb to be.
This is most commonly found in the past
simple, past, continuous and passive voice.
Are you enjoying this lesson?
If you are, then I want to tell you
about the Finely Fluent Academy.
This is my premium training program where
we study native English speakers from TV,
the movies, YouTube, and the news.
So you can improve your listening
skills of fast English, expand your
vocabulary with natural expressions,
and learn advanced grammar easily.
Plus, you'll have me as your personal coach.
You can look in the description
for the link to learn more,
or you can go to my website and
click on Finally Fluent Academy.
Now let's continue with our lesson.
Let's keep going and learn the
difference between do you and are you.
Both of these are question
forms in the present simple,
but they use different verbs
and different structures.
So let's begin with are you Now
are, of course, is the verb to be.
So are you is forming a question in the present
simple, using the verb to be our subject is you.
So that's why we need are because that's the
conjugated verb to be with our subject you.
Now we use the verb to be in
the present simple for facts,
facts about the world or
facts about ourselves as well.
For example, I could ask you
because remember this is a question.
So you're going to ask someone about a fact.
So I could ask you, are you American or British?
Are you, are you American or British?
Now another fact would be your job.
So I can ask you, are you a software engineer?
Now I could also ask you a fact
about your physical description
and I could ask you, for example, are you tall?
Assuming we're chatting and I can't see you,
so I don't know if you're tall or
not, and I could ask, are you tall?
Now let's take a look at the sentence structure,
because using the verb to be in question
form, we use something called inversion.
So we take our subject and our verb, which
would be the structure for a positive sentence,
and we invert them, which means we switch them.
So our sentence structure for questions using the
verb to be in the present simple
is verb plus subject plus object.
So we know our verb is the verb to be are,
and we know our subject is you
because we're only talking about are.
So our subject and our verb
need to conjugate are you.
And then I just need my object, the question,
the rest of the sentence, are you tall?
Now keep that sentence structure in
mind while we take a look at do you.
Do you is also a question
form in the present simple.
The difference is do is an auxiliary verb, which
means do doesn't have any meaning in that word.
It's only there grammatically.
So to have meaning in the
sentence, we need a main verb.
Do is the auxiliary verb, and
we still need a main verb.
Now in the present simple, I'm going to ask
you about yourself or about your routine.
So for example, I could ask do you live in London?
So of course here live is our main verb, but I
need my auxiliary verb do do you live in London?
I can't just do inversion
with my subject and verb.
If I did that, it would be live
you in London, live you in London.
And we know that isn't grammatically
correct for English sentence structure,
so we need our auxiliary verb do and
do is conjugated with our subject you.
Do you live in London?
Another question, do you have a dog?
So here have is our main verb.
But I can't say have you a dog.
So I need do you have a dog?
I need my auxiliary verb do so
compare our two sentence structures
because here our sentence structure
is auxiliary verb, subject main verb.
Auxiliary verb is due because our subject
is you and do conjugates with the subject.
You do you.
And now we need a main verb.
But the form of this is the base verb,
which means it's the infinitive without two.
So to live we get rid of two
and we have live do you live?
And then the rest of the sentence, the object.
So with ru, our sentence structure
was verb, subject object.
Do you our sentence structure is
auxiliary verb do subject main verb,
which is the base verb and then the object.
They're both used in question
form with the present simple.
And this is something that
you absolutely must know to
understand basic English sentence structure.
So now it's your turn to practice.
I want you to leave two questions in the comments
below, one with do you and one with are you.
You're doing so great.
Now let's talk about how to use didn't and wasn't.
Both of these are the past simple forms,
and both of them are past simple negative.
Wasn't is the past simple
negative form of the verb to be.
But wasn't is only used with the subjects I, **
*** and it didn't is a past simple negative form,
but it's an auxiliary verb, which means
it doesn't have a base verb itself.
It's used with any base verb.
So our sentence structure would be
subject didn't base verb to form
a complete sentence that's past simple negative.
To understand both of these, let's start
with a positive sentence in the present.
So we'll do a present simple positive
sentence and then we'll see how we can
change that sentence into
the past simple negative.
So you can see the transformation
of how we use didn't and wasn't.
So let's start with our positive present simple
sentence for the verb to be, I'm there, I'm there.
Pretty simple, right to be there, I'm there.
Or I could say she's there.
Now I can make this sentence negative in
the present simple simply by adding not.
I'm not there, she isn't there.
But remember wasn't is the form of
the verb to be and it's negative,
but it's used in the past simple.
So I need to take my two sentences
and have a past simple time reference.
So let's use yesterday.
Yesterday I know I'm in the past simple and I
know that my sentence is going to be negative.
So I can say yesterday she wasn't
there, yesterday I wasn't there.
So that's how the transformation
took place from having a present
simple positive to present simple
negative to past simple negative.
And remember wasn't is only used
for the subjects I, ** *** it.
So let's do the same thing and
see how we can get to didn't.
So let's start with a present
simple positive sentence.
I go to bed at 10:30.
So here my verb is go to go.
Now, when we take regular verbs, excluding
to be, to be as a verb has different rules.
OK, so we take regular verbs like the verb go.
We have our positive in the present simple
to form the negative in the present simple.
I need an auxiliary verb.
And that auxiliary verb that
I'm going to use is don't.
I don't go to bed at 10:30.
This is the auxiliary verb for
the subjects I, you, we, and they.
I don't go to bed at 10:30.
So now I have a negative sentence,
but it's in the present simple.
It talks about a routine, but I want to talk about
a past simple so I can use the keyword yesterday.
So I know I'm in the past simple
Yesterday I didn't go to bed at 10:30.
So to form a negative sentence
in the past simple for regular verbs,
we need to follow our structure.
Subject didn't, and then our base verb.
Our base verb is go.
I didn't go to bed at 10:30 yesterday.
So far we have focused on individual verbs.
Now let's take a look at the five most common verb
tenses that you need to speak English fluently.
The 1st is the present simple.
For this subjects, I, you, we,
and they, you add the base verb.
Now for the subjects ** *** it,
you add the base verb plus S.
Or ES and this is one of the
most common mistakes that my
advanced students make for getting
to add that S so don't forget that.
As for ** *** it subjects the
present simple is used to describe
routine habits in your daily life.
For example, I eat breakfast every day at 6:00 AM.
It's also used to describe
general facts and truths.
For example, the sun rises in
the east and sets in the West.
And notice I added those s s
because the sun is it, ** *** it.
You need those s s.
It's also used for feelings,
emotions, and states of beings.
We are very excited for the concert tonight.
Now here's one that most of my
students don't use correctly.
And the present simple is also used for timetable
events, even if that event is in the future.
For example, the train leaves at 5:00 AM tomorrow.
It's very common to use an adverb of
frequency with the present simple,
which is one easy way that you can identify it.
The most common adverbs of frequency are every
day or always for seven times a week, often,
usually, or frequently for about four to six times
a week, sometimes for three to four times a week,
rarely or seldom for one to two times a
week, and never for zero times a week.
So let's practice this just for fun.
Share something silly that you never
do or always do in the comments below.
For example, I never brush
my teeth while I'm driving,
so share something silly in the
comments just to have a little fun.
Now let's move on to the past
simple to form the past simple.
You have your subject and then you have your base
verb plus Ed or an irregular past simple verb.
And there are many irregular verbs,
so you simply need to memorize them.
The past simple is used for an action that started
and finished at a specific time in the past.
For example, I went to the store yesterday,
she took a shower at 8:00 AM, but now it
is 11:00 AM, so 8:00 AM is in the past.
They ordered pizza for dinner and now it's
10:00 at night, so dinner is in the past.
We sang all night, but I'm talking about
maybe yesterday or the night
before, so it's in the past.
Let's review some past simple keywords so you
can easily identify when you
need to use this verb tense.
Yesterday, last week, month, or year?
In 2020 at 3:30 PM.
Four hours ago on Monday, on July 15th
when I graduated or during the meeting.
And remember all of those keywords?
The actions started and finished in the past.
Now let's talk about the future.
Simple, another verb tense.
I see a lot of mistakes with.
The structure is very easy.
You have your struct, subject, will and base verb.
It's the same for all
subjects, which makes it easy.
This verb tense is used to make predictions,
but when it's based on your opinion, not facts.
Argentina will win the World Cup.
This is just my opinion, I
don't know this as a fact.
Someone else could say I think
France will win the World Cup.
Notice here I added.
I think it's very common to use
an opinion word with the future.
Simple.
This verb tense is used for
spontaneous actions or decisions,
which means they were not planned in advance.
For example, let's say you see a woman struggling
with her grocery bags and
she has many grocery bags.
You can say I'll help you with those bags.
You didn't plan this in advance,
it was a spontaneous action.
It's also used with promises,
commitments, offers, or refusals.
If you say I'll send you the report at 5:00
PM, you are making a promise or a commitment.
It's like saying I promise I'll send you
the report at 5:00 PM so the
other person will expect it.
If you use the future.
Simple.
Now let's talk about the present.
Perfect.
A verb tense that confuses a lot of students.
But absolutely, you must know how to use it.
The structure is I, you, we,
they plus have plus the past
participle and you simply need to
memorize all the past participles.
Now for the subjects ** ***
is, you need to use has as
your auxiliary verb and the past participle.
Now, did you know that the present perfect
is also used with the completed past action,
but one that has a result or
consequence in the present?
For example, I have eaten that
is a completed past action.
Now it's common to use
already, but it's not required.
I have already eaten, so what's
the result in the present?
So now I'm not hungry.
It's also used for life experience
when it's an unfinished timeline.
For example, she's been to Panama twice now
because she is alive, she can go to Panama again.
So it's an unfinished time reference.
Or you could say I haven't seen that movie yet.
Yet is a keyword for the present perfect
and we use it in negative sentences.
And by saying yet you're letting the person know
that is still possible for you to
watch that movie in the future.
So it's an unfinished time reference now.
The present perfect is also used for an action
that started in the past and continues until now,
but only with three common
verbs, live, work, and study.
For example, they've lived
in that house for 20 years.
They still live there now,
and it started in the past.
It started 20 years ago.
Very important point.
You can't use a specific time
reference with the present perfect.
You must use the past.
Simple.
This is a very common mistake
that I see my students make.
So you can't say I've tried
sushi last week because last
week is a specific past time reference.
So you would have to say I tried sushi last week,
or you could get rid of last
week and say I've tried sushi.
Let's move on to our last verb
tense, the present continuous.
This structure is I am plus verb in your ING form,
your gerund verb you we they
are plus verb in ING or ** ***.
It is plus verb in ING.
So don't forget you have to conjugate
the verb to be according to the subject.
The present continuous is used for an action
that is currently taking place right now now.
So I could say my students are
because the subject is they.
My students are watching
my video right now, right?
You're watching this video right now.
You can also use the present
continuous with the future.
If it's a planned action, a
planned action in the future.
For example, he's attending
the conference next month.
It's in the future, but it's planned.
He's attending the conference next month.
Or she's performing at the World Cup in
2026, so even though it's way in the future,
you can still use the present
continuous if it's a planned event.
An important note that you should know
because I know it might confuse students.
Native speakers use the
present continuous with always
to stress the continuation of something negative.
She is always coming to work late.
So instead of saying she always comes
to work late because always is a
keyword for the present simple.
Native speakers frequently put
this in the present continuous.
I don't recommend that you do
that because it really depends
on the context if it sounds correct or incorrect.
But grammatically, it's always correct
to use the present simple with always.
So that's what I recommend that you do.
I'm just sharing this so you don't get confused
when you hear a native speaker say
she is always coming to work late.
Now you know the five verb tenses
that make up 96% of your speech.
So Are you ready for your quiz?
To make sure you really know how to
use them, here are the questions.
Hit pause and take as much time as you need.
And when you're ready to continue, hit play.
Here are the answers.
Hit pause.
Review the answers, and when
you're ready to continue, hit play.
Now that you have an overview of
these verb tenses, let's look in
more detail at the difference between
the past simple and the present perfect.
So we use the past simple with
the completed past action, right?
This action is complete.
I already ate.
That is a finished completed action in the past.
Now let's talk about the present perfect.
Here's what you need to keep in mind.
The present perfect has a many
different uses depending on the context.
In this lesson, we're specifically talking
about comparing these two sentences.
So in this specific context,
the present perfect can be used for a
past action with a present consequence.
OK, there are other ways
we use the present perfect.
We're not going to discuss those.
We're specifically talking about this one,
meaning a past action with a present consequence.
I've already eaten.
So as you can see just from their
definitions that they can both be
used with a completed past action.
The difference is the present perfect present.
There is a connection to the present.
OK, so keep that as your memory aid.
Present perfect present, connection
to the present with the past.
Simple that connection to the present isn't there.
One other thing you need to keep in mind is that
a native English speaker is not a grammar expert.
A native English speaker is going to use
these two sentences in this specific context.
They're going to use these
two sentences interchangeably,
and there's not going to
be a difference in meaning.
So when a native speaker says I already ate or
I've already eaten, there's no difference at all.
If you ask them why did you
say this one and not this one,
they're not going to know because
they don't study grammar, okay?
And they're both acceptable.
So just keep that in mind.
A native speaker is going to use them
interchangeably with no difference in meaning.
But let's talk about that
subtle difference in meaning.
When we say that the present perfect
can be used with a past action that
has a present consequence, what does that mean?
A present consequence.
So let's just think about that.
I already ate in the past.
Simple, just remember, completed past action.
It's done, it's over.
I already ate.
Now when I say I've already eaten, there's
some sort of connection to the present.
So you can always think of it in
your head as I've already eaten.
So now, OK, I've already eaten.
So now because connection to
the present, I've already eaten.
So now I'm not hungry.
So now I don't want a piece of cake.
So now I don't want to go to that
restaurant with you, OK, I've already eaten.
But keep in mind that.
So now we don't verbalize
it, We don't say it out loud.
It's just implied in the context.
OK, so let's take a look at a few more examples.
I could say I talked to my boss,
just a completed past action.
Or I could say I've talked to my boss.
So what's the connection to the present?
Maybe I've talked to my boss.
So now I'm going to leave.
Maybe that's just the connection to the present.
It could be anything.
Again, we don't verbalize that.
It's just imply.
How about this one?
I checked the mail, I just completed past action.
I checked the mail.
Or I've checked the mail in the present perfect.
I've checked the mail.
What's the connection to the present?
I've checked the mail so you don't have to.
That could be the connection to the present.
One more example, I booked the
hotel, completed past action,
or I could say I've booked
the hotel in the present.
Perfect.
I've booked the hotel.
So now we're going on vacation.
Maybe that's the connection to the present.
So now I'm excited.
Remember, we don't specifically
say it is just implied.
And also in all of these examples in this
specific context, a native English speaker
is going to use them interchangeably
without a difference in meaning.
Amazing job.
Now let's look closer at the difference between
the present simple and the present continuous.
This is a mistake that I see
students making quite a lot,
and this is a mistake that I
see my advanced students make.
Now you need to keep in mind that when you use
a different verb tense, the meaning changes.
So when I hear I live in
Paris in the present simple,
that is different from I'm living
in Paris, the meaning is different
and I'm going to interpret them differently
simply because of the verb tense you used.
Now our present simple, I live in Paris.
Of course, to form the present simple,
we just take our base verb, which
is the infinitive without two.
Remember, we need to conjugate
this with our subject.
So if it was she, it would be she lives in Paris.
OK, Now we use the present simple
for routines like I'm sure you know,
but we also use the present simple when
we're talking about permanent situations,
or you can think of them as simply facts.
So when I hear someone say I live in
Paris, I see this as a permanent situation.
I live in Paris.
I live in Paris today, and I'm going to
be living in Paris for the future as well.
It's a permanent situation.
Now let's take a look at our next sentence.
I'm living in Paris.
So this is in the present continuous.
Now, of course, we form the present continuous
with the verb to be conjugated with our subject.
So I'm living.
She is She's living conjugated with our
subject, and then we need our verb in ING form.
She's living, I'm living now.
We use the present continuous for
situations taking place right now, right?
But we also use the present
continuous for temporary situations.
So when I hear I'm living in Paris, I
think of this as a temporary situation.
So I think you're living in Paris right now,
but you don't expect to be
living in Paris in the future.
When in the future?
Well, that isn't clear.
But when I hear it, I think of
it as a temporary situation.
And this is a big difference if you live in Paris
permanently or you live in Paris temporarily,
right, 'cause you can imagine if you go to a job
interview and then you say to the interviewer,
I'm living in Paris, well, they might not think
that you're going to be in the city for very long.
So they might not consider you as an
applicant because they want somebody
who's going to be in the position for a long time.
But you are only going to be
in the city temporarily, right?
So that could have a really big impact.
Or same thing if you're on a date and you're
talking to a potential romantic partner,
but you say I'm living in Paris,
well, they might think, well,
it's not worthwhile to pursue this relationship
because she's going to be moving in the future.
So there's a big difference in
meaning between these two sentences.
So keep in mind, we use the present
symbol for a permanent situation and
the present continuous for a temporary situation.
So now it's your turn to practice.
I want you to put in the comments one sentence in
the present, simple, that's a permanent situation.
And one sentence in the present
continuous, that's a temporary situation.
We're doing such a great job.
Think of everything you learned.
Now let's review the difference
between 4:00 and sense.
Now there's a specific time that you
need to choose either for or sense.
They're not interchangeable, and it will make your
sentence grammatically incorrect
if you're using the wrong one.
So first let's talk about four.
We use 4 for duration.
Okay, so you can think of it
as a time that has a start and.
An end a duration of time, for example,
for 20 minutes, for three weeks, for
seven months, or how about for 12 years?
Now we use sense with a specific time, so you
can think of it as a precise moment in time.
For example 9:00 AM last Monday, June 3rd, 2014.
So that's the first thing you need
to know to use these correctly.
4 is a duration of time, and
since is a specific time.
Now let's talk about the verb
tenses that you need for each.
So here's a little quiz for you.
I'm going to show you some sentences
using 4IN different verb tenses,
and I want you to tell me which ones are
correct and which ones are incorrect.
And keep in mind we're talking
about the verb tense specifically,
so that's what you need to look at.
So I'll show you the example sentences now.
So which ones are correct
and which ones are incorrect?
Let us know in the comments.
Well, I hate to break it to you, but this was
a trick question because they're all correct.
And the point is that four can be
used with many different verbatimses.
It's quite diverse in that way.
Now let's do the same thing,
but this time we'll do it with.
Since so again, the time references are all
correct, I'm using them all with specific time.
But let's take a look at the verb tenses.
So I'll show you the sentences and I want you to
let us know which ones are correct and incorrect.
So how'd you do with this one?
How about in the comments let
us know which ones are correct?
OK, put it in the comments.
Now this one wasn't a trick question
because sense is a lot more limited.
So here are example sentences.
The only correct ones were number one and #3
You can use sense with the present perfect
and the present perfect continuous.
The reason why is because since we use this for
an action that started in the past but continues
until now, and we actually don't know when that
action is going to end, but it's important.
It started it in the past, continues
till now and is still built in progress.
That's when we can use sense.
All right, so now you know that four is used
for a duration of time and it's very diverse.
You can use it with many different verb tenses.
You know that since we need a
specific time and you can use
it with the present perfect and
the present perfect continuous.
Now let me show you a sentence that I
see almost every day and it's wrong.
And the sentence is I've been
learning English since two years.
All right, this sentence is wrong.
Now, I want you to take this sentence
and make it a correct sentence.
You're going to need to change either
the for or since or the time reference.
OK, so make your change and put the
correct sentence in the comments below.
Amazing, John.
Now let's talk about if you
need you and me or you and I.
Now the easiest, the absolute
easiest way to know which one you
need to use is always drop the you
or drop the other person involved.
And just ask yourself in this
sentence, do I need me or I?
Because when you answer that
question in every scenario,
all you need to do is then add in
the you and it will be correct.
So let's take an example of this
and I'll show you what I mean.
For example, give that to, give that to.
I give that to me.
What do you guys think?
I or me put it in the comments below.
Give that to I give that to me.
Hmm, it would be, of course, me.
Give that to me.
So now all you need to add is another person.
You could say, give that to my
brother and me, for example.
Give that to my brother and me.
So it doesn't matter who you add after.
Let's try another example.
Let's say you're walking down the street and you
see this beautiful garden and you ask a stranger,
you say, can you take a picture of
Can you take a picture of I or of me?
Can you take a picture of I?
Can you take a picture of me?
Which one do you think?
Put it in the comments below.
Can you take a picture of me?
So now you just add, can you take
a picture of my friend and me,
My friend and me, my friends and me.
It doesn't really matter what you put in.
So let's try another example.
Went to the party.
So is this me?
Went to the party or I went to the party?
What do you think?
Put it in the comments.
Of course it's I went to the party.
So all we need to do is add in my friends
and I, you and I went to the party.
Doesn't matter what you put
before I so one more example.
Ran a marathon.
I ran a marathon, me ran a marathon.
What do you think?
Put it in the comments.
I ran a marathon.
So now I know it's I so I can
just add you and I ran a marathon.
My friends and I, my husband and I, my
boss and I doesn't matter what you put in.
My sister and I, it doesn't matter.
So that's the easiest way for you to
know if you need you and me or you
and I just drop the you or drop the my friends.
Drop the whoever it is, my coworkers, and just
ask yourself, do I need me or I in this sentence?
Now if you're not sure if you need me or I,
you just have to remember this one thing.
I is always the subject of a sentence, the
subject of a sentence, OK, and what's me?
Me is the object of a sentence.
So just to quickly study this topic, let's go back
to our example of Can you take a picture of me?
Can you take a picture of my friends and me?
Hmm.
OK, so who's the subject in this sentence?
Can you?
So you are the subject in this sentence.
You are doing the action,
I am receiving the action.
I'm the object in this sentence.
Can you take a picture of me?
So I'm not doing the action right.
So the subject is the one doing the action,
the object is the one receiving the action.
So that's just a quick overview, but that
is how you the easiest way to tell if you
need you and me or you and I think of
how much you've already improved your
grammar and how many mistakes you've probably
improved just by watching this master class.
Now let's talk about irregular verbs
because there are so many in English.
To get you started, here are the
50 most common irregular verbs.
The first verb is the most common verb in English.
The verb to be to be, was or were, been.
Notice for the past simple.
We have two choices, was or were.
Your choice depends on the subject.
I, ** ***.
It was Yesterday I was sick.
Yesterday he was sick.
Were is for you.
We and they.
We were sick yesterday.
They were sick yesterday.
The participle bin.
I haven't been sick in years.
Become became become.
Yesterday I became sick.
Have you become sick?
Begin began, begun.
I began the project 2 weeks ago.
Have you begun the project yet?
Bring, brought, brought.
She brought chocolates to the party.
She had already brought the
chocolates by the time I came.
Buy, bought, bought.
She bought new shoes last week.
She had bought the shoes
before she got the promotion.
Choose, chose, chosen.
Notice the pronunciation difference
between our base verb choose
and the past and the participle choose
chose oh, oh, choose chose chosen.
She chose me for her team
who had chosen that book.
Come, came, come.
She came home late.
Has she come to the party yet?
Do.
Did.
Done.
I did the chores.
Have you done the chores?
Drink.
Drank.
Drunk.
She drank the entire bottle.
She's drunk 2 bottles so far.
Drive.
Drove.
Driven.
Who drove you here?
I was driven by my friend.
Eat, ate, eaten.
I ate early yesterday.
Have you eaten yet?
Fall Fell.
Fallen.
She fell really hard.
She had fallen before it rained.
Feel.
Felt.
I felt bad.
I haven't felt fabric like that before.
Find, found, found.
I found 10 bucks on the street.
Have you ever found money before?
Fly flew, Flown.
They flew to Paris last week.
I've flown five times this year.
Forget, forgot, forgotten.
Oh no, I forgot to buy milk.
Have you ever forgotten someone's birthday?
Get, got, got, or gotten.
You can use either one in
the past participle form.
Got or gotten.
Gotten is more common in American English.
Yesterday I got a speeding ticket.
Have you ever gotten a speeding ticket?
Give, gave, given.
I gave her a box of chocolates.
Have you ever given someone chocolates?
Go, went, gone.
Such a common verb, but I hear a lot of
mistakes with the verb go, go, went, gone.
Yesterday we went to the store.
They've been gone for 20 minutes.
Have had had.
She had a great time yesterday.
We've had a great time since we got here.
Hear, heard, heard yesterday.
I heard the Best Song.
Have you ever heard that song?
Keep kept.
Kept.
The politician kept his promise.
Have you kept your photos from your trip?
No New known.
I knew she did it.
I've known him for 10 years.
Leave.
Left.
She left at 5:00.
She had already left by the time I came.
Lend.
Lent.
I lent him some money.
Have you ever lent anyone money?
Let let let.
That one's easy.
She let me keep the money.
I've let five people into the room so far lose.
Lost.
I lost their number.
Have you ever lost your wallet?
Make Made.
Made.
They made a terrible mistake.
Have you ever made a promise that you didn't keep?
Meet, Met.
Met.
We met last week.
Have you met Fred yet?
Pay.
Paid.
I already paid the bill.
She had paid the bill by the time
I got back from the bathroom.
Put.
Put, put.
That one's easy.
I put my new shoes in the closet.
Have you put away your groceries yet?
Read, read, read.
Notice the spelling is exactly the
same, but the pronunciation changes.
Read, read, read.
Yesterday I read my book for 20 minutes.
Have you read his autobiography yet?
Run, ran.
Run.
He ran a marathon last week.
We've run three tests so far,
Say Said Said, Who said that?
She had said that before our conversation.
See Saw.
Seen.
I saw a movie last week.
Have you seen that movie yet?
Sell.
Sold.
Sold We sold our car.
Have you sold your house yet?
Send Sent Sent We sent the package last week.
Have you sent the package yet?
Sing Sang.
Sung She sang in the shower yesterday.
Have you ever sung in the shower?
Sit.
Sat.
She sat down and broke the chair.
Have you ever sat beside someone famous?
Sleep.
Slept.
I slept terrible last night.
Have you ever slept outside?
Speak.
Spoke.
Spoken.
Who spoke at the wedding?
I haven't spoken to her in years.
Stand.
Stood.
He stood me up.
Have you ever been stood up?
When someone stands you up, it means you made
plans with someone, usually romantically,
like a date, but the other person didn't show up.
They didn't come to the restaurant
at 7:00 like they said they would.
So have you ever been stood up or
have you ever stood someone up?
Hopefully not.
Swim.
Swam, swam.
I swam in the ocean last week.
I haven't swum in the ocean for five years.
Take.
Took.
Taken.
She took our photo.
Have you taken anyone's photo before?
Teach taunt.
Taunt.
She taught them how to use irregular verbs.
Have you ever taught someone
how to use irregular verbs?
Tell, told, told.
She told me the truth.
Have you ever told a lie?
Think, thought.
Thought.
I thought it was a good idea.
Have you thought about moving?
Understand.
Understood.
I understood her explanation.
Have you understood all these irregular verbs?
Where wore worn?
She wore her green dress to the party.
She hasn't worn her blue dress yet.
Write, wrote, written.
I wrote the answer in my notebook.
Have you written the essay yet?
Congratulations on completing this master class.
Do you want me to make more master classes?
If you do put Master class, put
master class in the comments.
And of course, make sure you like this lesson,
Share it with your friends and subscribe.
So you're notified every time I post a new lesson.
And you can get this free speaking
guide where I share 6 tips on how
to speak English fluently and confidently.
You can click here to download it or
look for the link in the description.
Now that you've improved your grammar, let's
expand your vocabulary with this lesson.
Watch it right now.